OK everyone.
So now that we have at least learned how to query against graft.
Well let's take a bit of time to understand how we can leverage graft Q On a polo to replace the existing
redux implementation we have inside of our applications.
Now you can use graft you all alongside redux.
It's not impossible.
The only issue with doing so is that you end up running two different kinds of front end state management
libraries.
If you decide to use Apollo.
Generally speaking the information around whether or not to use graph QR and Apollo alongside redux
is not fully fleshed out yet.
There are people that have done it and there are people that advise against it.
In my personal opinion I am going to teach you everything about Apollo replacing redux in our front
end and then at that point you can at least be equipped with the tools required to decide for yourself
whether or not redux with Apollo or with just Apollo alone is a better solution for you when you decide
to use Graf.
Q Well personally I would see benefits in both redux has a really fleshed out architecture and ecosystem
that is really easy to learn and use.
Once you've become familiar with redux structure graph Q On Apollo on the other hand are still relatively
new.
So Apollo does not have that much almost community support answering a lot of the questions that you
might encounter if you try and just use Apollo alone to manage your local state.
You might encounter unique cases or it's difficult for you to actually figure out how to leverage local
state with the same robustness that you would be able to do with redux.
But that's simply my personal opinion.
It's entirely up to you how you want to do it.
I just want to equip you with all of the tools so that you can do it best now before we actually move
on to any of the coding.
We have to understand what the structure of Apollo vs. redux will be.
So in this diagram here we can see how we currently have our application setup using sagas as well as
redux.
So here we see that we have our reduced hours which pass our state as props to our components.
And here is where we have our selectors which would pluck off the specific properties that we want to
leverage inside of our components and then our components end up firing actions using dispatch.
These actions will hit the middleware before they end up hitting the producers but at this point the
middleware is able to use those actions and fire off different asynchronous event handling middleware
that we are familiar with now such as Thanks sagas etc. which could fire more actions or they might
fetch data from our firebase application so we'll end up fetching our data from the database which would
then end up firing more actions so that our reducer is get updated with this data.
So this image represents the flow of everything that we've done up until now.
Now if we were to replace those with Apollo and graph Q all this is what it would look like.
So we still have components and we have now instead of our reducer this thing called a local cache so
the local cache is this thing that Apollo provides us so that we're able to cache data on the client
side the same way that redux does it we're able to access this cache from anywhere inside of our componentry
the same way we can with redux connect the only thing is that in order for us to get data or modified
data on the local cache we have to do so through a query or a mutation.
Now a query as we know is a way for us to request data from our back end.
But the way that Apollo has its setup is that you would make the exact same query request for any data
on your local cache so you can almost see it as if you have two places where there's data you have a
local cache and you have your back end database.
Pretty much the same way that we have firebase as our back end database and Redux as our local state
the local cache that comes with Apollo is the exact same idea.
The only difference is that the only way that you can make a query or mutation against your local cache
as well is to use a query or a mutation.
Now what is a mutation mutation is simply any code that is not simply trying to read against the data
you want to write against the data.
You either want to update it add something to it or delete it.
So that's pretty much what mutations are in graph QoL as well as Apollo.
They separate them into two different things.
Queries simply get data mutations modify data.
Now the way that we actually need to define to our application as well as to Apollo what we're able
to query for or modify we do in this thing called a resolve.
Now the resolve or you can kind of see as a function very similar to our reducer.
The only difference is that that function that resolve or function once it's called will either modify
some data or get some data.
So it's simply a function that has access to the local cache and fetches data and then plucks off the
data that you want to display.
Or it allows you to merge data together on a local cache so you can perform some specific type of function
in order to update the local cache.
Now I know that might sound confusing but it's pretty much just the place where we have to write our
code that defines what types of queries or mutations we have access to inside of our application.
So just keep this in mind because we will end up writing resolves inside of this section.
Now these resolves are also going to be the type of resolves we have on our backend that allows us to
do the same thing to our database.
So if you are to ever look at a graph queue all back in server you would also see resolve or functions
because those resolve or functions is what allows the graph queue all server to know what exactly users
are allowed to query for or allowed to mutate so keeping this in mind.
This is where the flow of data will be components will fire often or Apollo quest the Apollo request
my check against our resolves to see if it's a local or non-local request if it's a non-local request
it simply is a external query or mutation it will then depending on what is looking for gets update
or delete data on the back end and it will send that over to our graph you all server our graph QR server
then processes the request and it makes either a request to update data or get some data based on the
rescue all or no Eskew or database we actually have.
So if that's successful it will send that data back up and then through to our application and components
where we can either store on a local cache or we can simply use it in our components.
Now with Apollo it will always cache that data for us so that we don't end up querying the same data
because that is pretty expensive.
So that's the great thing about Apollo is this local cache we're able to not only leverage local data
the same way that we can with redux but we're also able to automatically cache any data that we pull
from our database so that we don't end up wasting requests.
So this is kind of the flow that we're going to explore when we write in the upcoming lessons.
So just keep this in mind.
I know a lot of it is going to be brand new information and brand new patterns that you've never seen
before but this is at least a visual representation of what it is that we're going to build.
And it's okay if it doesn't make sense.
Even when we do those lessons because Apollo and Graf Q Are quite frankly quite complex to implement
so let's move forward with actually figuring out how this image looks like code.